it's that moment of awakening where
somebody goes from believing that their
life is cast in stone there's only so
much they can accomplish to realizing
holy hell I can do anything I want
without reservation I've got a theory
and it goes like this you should at all
times do and believe that which moves
you towards your goals now I think most
people really get the whole concept of
doing what moves them towards their
goals where they get lost is you should
only believe things that move you
towards your goals belief is a decision
people think that belief is based on the
truth but I'm gonna say something and
it's going to immediately ring it's true
because you've probably heard it before
you're five times more likely to believe
negative information than you are to
believe positive information right if
you guys heard that before if I say
something nice to you and then somebody
comes along and says something negative
to you you're more likely to believe and
internalize the negative thing because
of that very fact I have very little
interest in what is objectively true the
human animal is really bad at
understanding what is objectively true I
think I'm dumb that doesn't serve me so
let that go what does serve me is I can
learn anything now whether or not that's
actually true whether there's some limit
or not it's totally irrelevant I don't
care there is no question for the human
animal you lead with belief now I don't
mean that you sit here and go I'm the
greatest and that's the belief I'm
saying you need to believe that humans
are an adaptation machine and that you
can learn to do anything because if you
don't believe it I mean just really
think about it for a second if you don't
believe that you can do it then you
don't believe that the effort will be
worth it and that's why people don't
move forward if you have that most
foundational fundamental belief that you
can learn anything you can get good not
that you are good not that you are
capable but that you can become capable
of the extraordinary then you'll take
the first step because you know that the
rewards are there you know that the
effort is gonna be worth it but the most
important thing is you have to act
now and in one very specific direction
the temptation is always to think to
pontificate to plan strategize but at
the end of the day you've got to
actually take action and go out and do
something no amount of thinking is ever
going to solve the problem only
encountering it will if you want to know
if you should dance go dance right don't
think about it get a goal very specific
and then work your way backwards model
yourself after someone that's already
done it so once you identify what it is
that's effective look at somebody that's
achieved that and figure out what were
the steps that they did in order to get
there picking your goal is one of the
most important things people are ever
gonna do and one of the most common
questions I get is how do I find my
passion which is another way of saying
what should my goal be it is a process
and what I really want people to
understand it is not something you
discover it's something you develop so
you're not hiding within you there is
not some grand mission or grand purpose
you have no idea about if you just
meditate enough there it will be in fact
the whole reason to meditate is to
create the quiet space so you can hear
the whispers of your intuition it's that
it's a quiet voice it's a I find that
interesting it's I want to try that
that's how this starts and then only
through encountering it only through
engaging with it only in trying it and
getting out there and practicing and
seeing if that interest turns into a
fascination and then if that fascination
is captivating enough that you really
want to get great at it I would say the
goal if it's true to you it is that
thing that is your mission in life
you've developed it over time and
started as an interest it turned into a
fascination it ultimately became a
passion through the real acquisition of
skills and gaining mastery if it's true
to that and it is you following your
bliss then changing that like that would
even make sense that is the thing that
makes you feel alive it is the thing
you've spent a very long time falling in
love with through the process of falling
in love
but a path a path is totally irrelevant
a path is your best guess at what's
gonna take you to your goal but as you
move if you realize that that path isn't
working that there's a better path
switch instantly and that's like people
need to really understand that
difference between something that is the
goal in and of itself and something that
is merely your best guess at how you're
gonna get there so whether you grit or
quit as they say the grit comes down to
the end goal the quit if it's a path
that's not working discard it move on to
the next one but you just have to make
sure that you're not discarding
something because you're bored or
discarding something because it's hard
should only ever discard it because you
have evidence that either there's a
better one a more efficient path or that
what you're doing is actively not
working so here's the thing with this
one do and believe that which moves you
towards your goals there's only one
thing you need to think about and that
is don't worry about what is objectively
true make sure you have a very specific
goal work your way back to where you are
today identify that gap in beliefs and
systematically boom-boom-boom decide
what those are gonna be in order to get
you where you want to go everything is
judged by its efficacy of moving your
towards your goals especially your
beliefs so think about the things that
you need to believe in order to take
that first step in order to get you
moving because it's the moving the doing
that ultimately is going to get you
where you want to go so starting at that
most foundational level of believing
that it's possible